-----
Title:  Gardening misery
Author: Andy Georges
Date: May 30, 2006
-----







We have bought our house three years ago. The first task we set was
removing all the electrical wiring and putting in a complete new set of
wires, outlets, switches etc. Second, we needed to move the bathroom.
Third, install a (new) (temporary) kitchen. Of course, various other
tasks came along, such as gettting new windows, new floor tiles in the
living room, quickstep in the bedrooms, and a whole lot of other stuff.
However, the garden remained fairly untouched. Scheduled to be handled
after two years, the birth of Elias and the heap outlined above delayed
this task somewhat. In the end we decided that by april 2006 we would
like to have a decent lawn, nice plants, and a space for Elias to play
in the garden.


Sadly, we did not make that deadline. Blame it on the bad weather. But,
we did start, and we advanced, albeit slowly. The fact that the previous
owner tried fortifying the garden soil with solid rock, concrete and
stone did not help much. We've moved at least 2000 kg of that rubbish.
The immediate focus always targetted the lawn, but that changed
somewhere during March, when we decided to replace the unkempt plants at
the end of the garden with a decent wooden fence. Incidentally, said
fence was ordered last Saturday, and is planned to be delivered on our
driveway somwehere next Friday.


We've levelled the land a bit, and we will order topsoil in the next few
days, to level it some more, and to bury the remaining shards that are
too small to collect with tools. When all is said and done, I hope to
have a lawn at the end of June 2006. We'll see how and if it works out.




