-----
title:  Programming Languages or Lack Thereof
author: Andy Georges
date: March 9, 2006
tags: 
-----







The first programming languages I was taught were (in order): (Turbo)
Pascal, C and C++. During my final year at uni I grew an interest in
languages no professor ever spoke of: Perl, Python, Awk, Bash (as far as
shell stuff can be called a language). I took a course on functional and
logical programming - for which I happen to be one of the teaching
assistants at the moment - where I met Haskell and Prolog. While the
latter has never managed to grab my interest, the former I really took a
liking to. The functional programming course got me looking at
[Clean](http://www.cs.ru.nl/~clean/), [Ocaml](http://caml.inria.fr/),
[SML](http://www.smlnj.org/), ... I must admit I never really got used
to the ML's, but that's largely because I do not digg the syntax very
much.


Somehow it seems a bit sad that there are no real introductions or even
hack sessions for the *alternative* (in the mainstream opinion)
languages such as Python, Perl or even Ocaml or Clean. Even PHP is
skipped, AFAIK. There are some introductions given by students to
students, but it would be better if there was at least some structured
course that would introduce at least a few of these languages, say
Python, PHP and Haskell (the functional programming course is dying with
the new Bachelor/Master system).


I think that most programming languages can contribute something
essential to the programmers toolbox. (Even Visual Basic. Like how not
to do it.) However, the last years the focus of the Computer Science
courses has been more and more committed to Java. Java for starters,
Java for Datastructures and Algorithms, Java for this, Java for that. I
am the first to admit that Java has its uses, and that when used in the
right environment it's even quite cool, but why drop everything else in
favour of Java? Because the industry demands it? Should the university
not deliver computer scientists with a broad spectrum of academic
qualities and with a broad range of programming languages they at least
know the basics of? Of course they should be proficient in one or two
languages, but they should at least have some knowledge of others. At
least they should know what language is best suited for a particular
task. Java is not a text-processing language, whereas Perl is. Right now
we seem to deliver Java bees. Who can explain to these people what a
pointer is? When the next mainstream, overhyped language rolls along,
will we teach only that language?


Maybe we should teach people some
[brainfuck](http://www.muppetlabs.com/~breadbox/bf/),
[whitespace](http://compsoc.dur.ac.uk/whitespace/) and friends.




