-----
Title:  Return Trip
Author: Andy Georges
Date: September 24, 2006
-----







We had slightly hoped that the return trip from Seattle would proceed as
planned. And it did. More or less. We did not miss any plane, and we
arrived in Brussels with all of our bags. But. The check-in counters of
BA in Seattle were rather undermanned. The line was long, and the time
was running short. Finally BA decided to allow economy class travellers
at their first and business class counters (though they call it slightly
different IIRC). With less than an hour to reach the gate, the check-in
line began moving faster. No windows seats left (obviously), and we were
at the very rear of the plane, on what they claimed were pre-assigned
seats. Ah well. We moved on to the security line, with abut 35 to 40
minutes before the deadline the check-in lady gave us to reach the gate.
I wonder how the line behind us could possibly make that deadline. Lucky
for us the security check went speedily. Some people were confused about
the no-belts, no-shoes demand, but we passed through ok. No re-checks.


When we made it to the gate, having just missed the train - causing an
extra 4 minute delay - we were asked if we'd passed the immigration
machines. Nope. Seems weird, checking out of the US is obligatory, and
we thought we were doing fine because they had removed the immigration
paper from the passport when checking in, but apparently there is nobody
forcing you to pass the US-visit machines to have your prints taken once
more. When they announced it at the gate prior to boarding, a lot of
people were getting up and moving out fast to the said machine.


The flight itself was uneventful, I watched MI-III, which was good,
brainless entertainment. Nothing spectacular and certainly not as good
as I and II. The ride was bumpy at times, but no booze was spilled. The
dude serving us was not very friendly, and the chick in front of me got
angry when I stowed away my powerbook and (reading) book in the seat,
bumping into her back. I managed to sleep through most of the night. We
landed half an hour late. This gave us max. 1.5 hours to reach the next
gate. Great. Heathrow made our plane wait for another half hour on the
runway, which was even greater. Add to that the fact that we needed to
stay in Terminal 4, passing the same security line we passed on our
outbound trip, and you can see that there was a good reason for an
increase in stress. Additionally, we had seats on row 51. The back of
the plane. With 55 minutes to reach the gate, people began to move at
the business class. Luckily, some people stayed seated, so we could
moved on faster than expected. We also did manage to walk by most of the
passengers of our plane on the way to the security check. So, we finally
made it with 15 minutes to spare to the gate. Sigh.


In Brussels, both bags turned up on the carroussel, so we went on our
happy way, trying out the Belgian railways. Luckily, we managed ok. No
delays.




