-----
title:  Lacrimosa
author: Andy Georges
date: August 22, 2006
description: 
tags: 
-----







Saturday, we went to the Gothic Festival organised by the[Purple
Moon](http://www.purplemoon.be/), to see Lacrimosa perform. We skipped
the first bands, and arrived around 18:00 in Waregem. Just in time to
fetch our pre-ordered tickets and enter the hall. Carefully avoiding the
undead that were roving the grounds, we let our eyes move across the
scene. Lo! a Leech entered the cave, trailing a thin vampire woman. They
were followed by more fleshy creatures, dresses befitting the party.


First up was [Garden of Delight](http://www.garden-of-delight.2xs.de/),
who seemed to use a drum-machine (nothing against that, SoM do the
same). The music they teared out of their instruments was indeed a
delight. Except for the first two songs, they were all quite good.
Second was Haggard. Something seemed amiss with the technical side of
the performance, as one of the girls singing had a mike that was not
quite fully functional. Apart from that, I found their music to be a tad
chaotic at times. They did provide us with a nice interpretation of
"Herr Mannelig" (which I only know from [In
Extremo](http://www.inextremo.de/home.php3?IE=1)). But other than that,
I found their performance a bit lacking. I'll blame it on the technical
issues they had.


Finally, [Lacrimosa](http://www.lacrimosa.com/e/index.htm) claimed the
stage. There was sufficient cheering as Tilo appeared, and the crowd was
quite enthusiastic when they performed 'Ich bin der brennende Komet'.
However, after the first song, the enthusiasm seemed to dwindle, and I
had the distinct impression the band noticed that as well. By the third
song, almost all the people who were standing further than the PA had
left the hall. Sad. I did think the band performed less impressive than
the previous shows I've seen, but it was still very enjoyable. But
perhaps the spectators needed a batch of fresh blood.




