-----
Title:  Center Parcs
Author: Andy Georges
Date: September 4, 2006
-----







Last week we made a little
[journey](http://www.flickr.com/photos/itkovian/sets/72157594267792655/)
to Center Parcs at the Vossemeren. It started out not too well: Elias
threw up in the car, covering most of his sweater and part of his seat.
Furthermore, the clouds decided to move over to where we were, and
provide us with a bit of water. At one point, I could not see beyond,
say, ten meters. This did not abode well for the days ahead.


After checking in, we had to wait another three hours before we were
allowed into the cottage, so we decided to make good use of the time and
went shopping (for food, not shoes). When we returned, the cars were
unloaded, dinner was prepared (spaghetti we made the day before). After
dinner, Veerle and Liesbeth decided to go for a swim. Meanwhile, Elias
had developed a serious fever. Luckily that got resolved the second day.


The weather decided to play ball, and got a little bit better. Less
rain, even sunshine appearing, so we could take a few walks. Elias
enjoyed the sliders that were positioned strategically next to our
cottage and on all the roads we walked. He also enjoyed the wimming
pool, after, say five minutes of angst. We even went to the big pool.
Which had colder water.


We enjoyed a good game of Uno, one where Mark did not win (a rare
occasion). Veerle beat him to it, with a little help from the rest of
us. I did manage no to lose, so everybody, except Mark, was happy. We
also had a try at Munchkin, but as none of us ever played it before, it
wasn't easy, and it did not proceed as hoped.


The second to last day, we visited the Discovery Bay, a place stuffed
with climbing goodies for the unexperienced climber. Lots of chicks and
old people were up in the ropes, but we kept solid ground underfoot, for
the most part at least.


The final day, after checking out, stuffing the car with our gear, we
went for another swim with Elias. He was rather very possessive of his
beach ball, when a cute girl wanted to play with him. Strange,
considering he otherwise enjoys it when girls pay attention to him.


The ride back home went smooth. Unfortunately, we did see one rather
major traffic accident, where a truck decided that it would love to see
the ditch from a bit closer up. Fire fighters were tearing open the
cabin with hydraulic knives. I hope the driver got out unscathed. At
home, all was well, despite my fears that water might have penetrated
the outer defenses once more.




