-----
Title:  Ceiling efforts
Author: Andy Georges
Date: August 8, 2006
-----







I managed to do at least some work around the house during the past few
weeks. We've had the MetalStud delivered to construct the fake ceiling
framework in the living room.


First task was getting the edges put up, in a decent and horizontal
fashion. Because we've got a lot of things to mind when planning the
final height of the ceiling (audio connections, other electrical boxes
hanging near the (real) ceiling on the wall, concrete slabs bridging the
gap between the dining and slouching rooms, ...) I decided not to fiddle
around with a XXX, but I went out and bought a nifty laser equipped tool
that calibrates itself horizontally and draws a 360 degreee laser arc on
the walls. It went flawlessly. The only drawback was the fact that the
device came with a tripod that could raise it to about 1m50. Whereas we
needed it raised to at least 2m60. I know that once you have a
horizontal line drawn on the wall, you can easily add height, but that
would mean walking around, trying not to miss anything and measuring
repeatedly to get the final height right - the exact problem we wanted
to avoid by purchasing the laser in the first place. Two tables stacked
on top of each other neatly circumvented that particular drawback. So we
ended up with a red line, we coved with pencil markings. Took us 15
minutes, costing â‚¬180.


The edges went up pretty fast, after I went out and bought the rings to
prevent the screws from bending the metal too much. That was the end of
afternoon one.


[![image](99C24F1B-CB15-4A6E-AA0E-A2D4B5028672-1.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/itkovian/191576058/)


The second afternoon, we cut the crossing bars and put them in place.
The cutting went slowly, until a friend brought his electrical saw,
equipped with a nifty metal cutting blade, that went through the
MetalStud like it was (almost) nothing (which, of course, it is). We did
the bars in the slouching room and the first half of the dining place.
So far, so good.


[![image](99C24F1B-CB15-4A6E-AA0E-A2D4B5028672-2.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/itkovian/191576248/)


Then came the toughest part: bridging the gap between the kitchen and
living room. We ordered a few plates cut in a local store, and lo!
swiftly the wood went up, producing a nice frame. the idea is that the
frame is strong enough to attach a few open cupboards underneath it, to
store our glasses.


Finally, we put up the remaining edge against the frame, and cut the
crossing bars and put them up.


[![image](99C24F1B-CB15-4A6E-AA0E-A2D4B5028672-3.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/itkovian/209949455/)


The kitchen remains undone for now, because I suspect the store not
having delivered the correct MetalStud bars. We have one edge (4m) and
eleven crossing sections (4m each). We need to cover a place of 2m by
2m80. The crossing bars should be places 30 cm apart. So do the math and
discover that either we miss one edge, or that we have three crossing
bars too much.




