-----
title:  Mac mini - intel version
author: Andy Georges
date: March 4, 2006
description: 
tags: 
-----







Ever since I bought my PowerBook G4 in march 2005, I've been a huge
Apple fan (more like since I drooled over
[termie](http://an9.org/blog)'s when Dries and I were in
[Vancouver](http://www.vancouver.com/index.htm) for
[OOPSLA2004](http://www.oopsla.org/2004/ShowPage.do?id=Home)). Not a
zealot, mind, but a huge fan nonetheless. I particularily like the OS,
with it's unixness under the hood of Aqua. And I like the hardware that
powers the Macs. Thus the premise for this rant.


For a time now, I have been considering buying either an iBook or a Mac
Mini for my wife, delaying due to money accumulation being required
prior to purchase. Sadly, the new Mac Mini has removed the G4 line from
the Apple store, so even if I assemble enough money in the next
month(s), I'll be left with the chance that the local [Apple
Centre](http://www.itpro.be/) G4 Mini stock has not been exhausted. The
reason I'm not immediately jumping onto the Intel Mac bandwagon is
twofold. First of all, I dislike the pricing tag. The machines are more
costly than their G4 counterparts. I find this to be a drawback
especially for the Mini-series. Second, choosing a shared memory
graphics chip seems like a bad decision, even though the Intel 950
supposedly packs more punch than the Radeon 9200. I means that for a
good game, you should probably equip your mac with at least 256 more MiB
than it would otherwise have needed. Furthermore, I really do not
believe that the increase in performance is a factor 3 to 4. For one,
the benchmarks used come from [SPEC
Rate](http://www.spec.org/cpu/docs/readme1st.html#Q15) - and thus it's
possible to run two benchmarks simultaneously on a dual core, but this
does not mean a single benchmark will run significantly faster. Second,
I have no plans on falling into the megahertz myth.


Additionally, what is particularily bothering me about the withdrawal of
the G4 Mini from the store is the meaning it has for the upcoming iBook
replacement. I assume it will arrive shortly, unless Apple wants to burn
up the parts it still has floating around. Then I'll be forced into
buying an Intel Mac if I want an iBook or a Mac Mini. And I'm still
unsure I really like them.




