-----
Title:  Seattle
Author: Andy Georges
Date: September 18, 2006
-----







I am in Seattle for [PACT](http://www.pactconf.rog/), where a paper I am
co-author of, will be presented by
[Kenneth](http://www.elis.ugent.be/~kehoste). The trip over here was
smooth in some aspects, bumpy in others.


First of all, let me say that the airline food on the
[BA](http://www.britischairways.co.uk/) flight was nothing short of
good. The most yummy food I've ever gobbled down when flying. The
chicken came with a nice mushroom sauce, the potatoes were edible, and
the vegetables were yummy. The dinner was very good as well, though I
did not eat it all. While the British in general can't cook, they do
make the greatest cakes.


Inflight entertainment was good too, with nice screen for everybody, and
a rich choice of programs to watch. I viewed The Da Vinci Code, and the
second half of X-Men II: The Last Stand. I drained my PowerBook battery
trying to get some work done, and had a bit of a nap.


Now on to the bad parts. The flight from Brussels to Heathrow arrived
late, and we were delivered to the wrong gate, so we had to wait for a
bus to take us back to a gate where we were allowed to arrive. It seems
strange to me, but apparently, the Brits are not allowed to disembark at
a terminal where people will embark subsequently. To me, it seems like
one just needs two levels at the terminal, but they seemed not to have
thought of that. So, after a wait and a ride (including a stop to remove
some bag, that had fallen from a lorry, from the road) we were finally
ready to make our way from Terminal building 4 to Terminal building 4,
which seemed to include a thorough security check. I knew that fluids
were not allowed, but they made me remove the spare ink cartridges I had
with me. Even the attendant though it was simply ridiculous. By then, we
had about 40 minutes left of the two hours we originally had according
to our travel plan to get to the gate for boarding the seattle flight.
Twenty minutes later, having moved on about 20 metres in the row, we
asked some official looking girl what to do. One minute later, another
official looking girl passed by, towing a load of passengers needing to
get their connection. We joined the passenger train and were brought to
the front of the line, where they made us take off our shoes, belt, take
out our laptop, picked out an old man for screening, ... By then it was
15:45, and the gate closed at 15:55, or so our boarding pass mentioned.
Needless to say, we took the rest of the way to the gate at an increased
pace. I did not dare to run, remembering the Brazilian student police
shot a while ago. But we made it on time to the gate. Obviously, as the
boarding got delayed to 10 minutes past the foreseen take-off time.


That, however was not the end of trouble. Upon arrival in Seattle, we
were last through immigration, joining the group still waiting for their
luggage. As more bags rolled onto the carroussel, and ours were not with
it, our agitation increased. Slightly. But when the man who set the
luggage upright at the carroussel walked away, a mild panic surged over
us. I was more than relieved when my bag appeared. But Kenneth went half
beserk when his did not. To make a long story short, we waited some
more, went to see the lady form BA, got send through customs, onto the
main bagage claim floor, where left-over bags seemed to have been
directed. Nothing there, went to see the BA bagage people, where they
told us the bag was still in London. Really. It should arrive today,
they said, and gave us $50 to buy some stuff.


So far the first day in Seattle. We did find some good food in Rock
Bottom, just around the corner from our Hotel.




