-----
title:  A tutorial on user-interface design
author: Andy Georges
date: October 22, 2007
tags: 
-----







I attended the 'From use to user interface' tutorial at OOPSLA, which
was presented by Jeff Patton. The approach outlined was the following.
First, start by writing a scenario, with a specific user (and his
associated persona) in mind. Go down to the nitty gritty details (fish
and clam-level), as well as the broad scope (sea-level and above). In
reality, you might have to create a few dozen scenario's to cover the
entire use-space for your particular problem.


From the scenario, identify user interface elements that help the user
execute the tasks required to reach his goal. For this, Jeff advocated
using post-it notes, as they can be reordered on a board, and teared up
when wrong.


Given the post-it notes create paper UI building blocks, such as labels,
input fields, buttons, tables, etc. these should be sticked onto paper
sheets, which represent the screens a user sees as he proceeds through
his stack of tasks.


Final phase is the testing. Get a person to play the computer, a person
to explain the scenario, and a few people choosing to pick the
UI-elements. Finally, somebody should observe and jot down everything
the testers have trouble with.


The next step is to repeat the above phases as much as needed until you
are confident the user interface you designed meets its requirements.


In all, I think this can be a good approach, especially when a
complicated user interface needs to be designed. However, I'm still
partial to the paper cutting and sticking the components onto paper. It
seems to me that this might be a little time-consuming. This is
especially true when you need a lot of screens, and the problem you're
dealing with is fairly complex. Basically, I think an electronical
counterpart to the paper based cut-and-stick idea might work faster.
Additionally, it seems as if the proposed approach is very hungry on
people resources, so it might cost quite a lot to have a user interface
designed in this way. And the testing phase seems to be quite awkward.
But I'm no expert whatsoever. And a well-designed interface can of
course rapidly earn its development price back because it can appeal to
people, causing them to buy/use your application.




