-----
Title:  Kathy Sierra on creating passionate users
Author: Andy Georges
Date: October 25, 2007
-----







One of the keynote speakers at this years OOPSLA was the
normal-from-afar-but-impressive-from-closeup-especially-when-speaking
Kathy Sierra. She talked to us about how to create a host of passionate
users. I'll try and give an impression of the key points she touched
upon.


First of all, it is important to recognize, people still want to meet in
person, despite all the technological advances made during the last
years that really means we can talk to one another without leaving our
home, or the comfort of our couch. So to create a bunch of passionate
users, you should build on this desire and get them together, where they
can talk, discuss, learn and teach. A good example she gave was that of
a barcamp. Basically, the roadmap to instilling passion in your users is
discovering the characteristics these people have in common.


Essentially, where there is passion, there is a user kicking ass. So,
you want people to get good at things, because if you suck at something,
there is no way you will be passionate about it. Counterexample 1: I
still suck at [Haskell](http://haskell.org/), but I'm quite passionate
about it. Counterexample 2: the same goes for me and
[Drupal](http://drupal.org/). But that may just be me. Most likely it
is. On the other hand, there are [people](http://buytaert.net/)
encouraging me to be passionate about this. With this observation, she
encouraged the audience to give users a hi-res experience, such that
they could understand that if they passed the suckiness threshold, they
could really rock. This means showing things to people as you see them,
and transferring your passion. For example, a mountain climber will
certainly look differently at a rock wall than Joe average, e.g., me.


The main issue is that often people are encouraged to be passionate
about a tool, rather than at what the tool can help them accomplish.
Nice example is the camera. What you want to do is to make kick-ass
pictures. So get people to be better at using the tool, helps them reach
this goal. But don't mention this, just show them the cool stuff they
can do, without emphasising the tool itself.


Kathy claimed that the first roadblock to get things rolling is the
brain of the users. People operate at a subconsious level, not at a
logical level, despite the fact that - so she said - many men like to
believe otherwise. Furthermore, brain have built-in crap filters,
meaning it's important to get the things you want users to retain pass
those filters. The mind however operates at a higher level, but people
are rarely actually guided by their mind. For example, when they really
want something, they will seek arguments why they should be allowed to
get what they want, rather than listening to their (correct) mind that
tries to tell them not to for some good reason (e.g., no money). Her
reasoning was that the brain cares about either life-sustaining of
life-threatening things, about joy, sadness, anger, love, scary things,
new things, intruiging things, etc. However, the brain cares not one
whit about code. The brain also cares about faces, so it is more
desirable to people to talk in person to somebody, instead of having
them interact with a machine. The bottom line is that use have to use
every trick at your disposal to capture the attention of the user. For
example, conversational language captures people attention better than
formal language. I guess that's one to keep in mind for my PhD
dissertation.


Well, everybody think he's above average, even when it is not true. So
the path to succes is constructed by dangling the carrot in front of the
users: allow them to have the idea how cool they will be when they grow
above the sucking threshold. So, users need a clear path to get to the
good stuff, see a compelling picture down the end of the road, and a
relatively easy first step onto the path. So, users must not be dumbed
down. Additionally, the path must be open ended. Every time there must
be a step users can take to keep increasing their competence.


Because all computer applications are somehow agnostic at some level to
what users think, it is important that users can knock on the door when
they get confused. Kathy called this adding a WTF? button to an
application. One of the problem is that users guides and FAQs are
written for happy people, not for somebody about to smack the hardware
(after all, hardware is the part you kick). So FAQs are written for
users on the other side of the canyon of pain.


I really like her metaphores.


Getting users on the path to world domination is but the first step, you
also have to keep them going. The best way to do this is to get them in
the flow state, which is the state where people just need to do this one
extra thing, one more compile, and it will work, etc. They are not aware
of time passing, and face it, you probably also accomplished most when
you're there. There seems to be a precarious balance between knowledge,
skill and challenge. To avoid slamming users back to reality, you should
make the good things easy, and the wrong things hard to do.


I think that she illustrated her point quite good by using the game
example. In a good game, there is a payoff when a player attains certain
experience, e.g., a faster car, better weaponry, etc., but there are
also tougher challanges to be faced to get even further.


She made me grin when she asked how we feel about users. RTFM? That's
usually how I think most of the time, after having things explained time
and again. But obviously it is the wrong approach, and deep down, we all
know it. This is why some online communities are much more succesful
than others. Those that don't bark nor bite but care about newbies can
get them up to speed easiest and create a following that will
(hopefully) repond the same way later on when they passed the suck
threshold. I think a good example of this is 
irc.freenode.net, where people have always been helpful for as long as
I've known. This is one of the key issues Kathy touched upon: get the
community to help out. People should be encouraged to answer politely,
and answer instead of just asking questions. Even when something is
answered wrongl, the community can pitch in and correct things. And
because newbies recall their pain best, it is important they actively
contribute.


Moreover, when a community can be converted into a tribe, passion may be
ignited sooner. A tribe has special little things only the members are
in on, and they notice each other. Tribe members id themselves with a
special thing, and they're proud to be part of it. Provide people with
the means to show they are part of the tribe, e.g., bumper stickers,
t-shirts etc. I guess I should be taking my Drupal t-shirt out to the
dry-cleaner so I dare wear it again. As Kathy nicely puts it: insider
information is trading currency, so give your users something to talk
about. Apple users should know what she means, given the huge number of
rumour sites.


Finally, appreciate the intelligence of your users. A crowd can reach
concensus, but that's probably not what you're interested in.
Individuals can contribute better if they get the chance. So make them
think they rule individually.


I really liked her talk, it was well paced, and had very well
thought-out illustrations on the slides. She gave quite a lot of things
to talk and think about. Which I what I intend to do.




