-----
title:  The lack of luggage
author: Andy Georges
date: October 28, 2007
description: 
tags: 
-----







I had a feeling things would not be OK, when I had to check myself in.
The machine gave me three leaves of paper, which did not resemble a
boarding pass at all. Then I presented my luggage to a not-so-nice-lady
at the counter. I showed her the sheets, and she never mentioned they
would not do. But it got me through security. So everything appeared to
be ok. Until I arrived at the boarding point, and I clogged the line
because I could *not* board using the semi-boarding pass I was issued.
No really. I showed the guy the itenary ticket I had received the week
before when leaving Brussels. After some debate, it seemed I would be
allowed to board.


I still have no idea where I should have obtained a real boarding pass.
I encountered no other counters where I could have received something.
My ticket was checked three four times: once when checking in my
luggage, when entering the security checkpoint, when leaving it and when
entering the section leading to the gate where I needed to board. So why
nobody told me I could not board using it - and why they issue it in the
first place - I remain clueless.


Same story at Frankfurt. Apparently, there is no *money* associated with
such a boarding pass, and the lady flat out refused to let me board. I
showed her my itenary ticket, which seemed to soothe her some. In the
end, she wrote down my reservation number, and said she'd get her money
that way.


Final smack was dealt in Brussels Airport. After waiting until the
luggage line stopped, I lined up with some other people who were going
to complain. When it finally was my turn, the lady was flabbergasted at
the luggage coupon I showed her. I needed a tag from the label that was
attached to my bag. Duh. No, sorry, can't give you that, I only have
this piece of paper. After some fiddling, she located some clues, and
found out my bag was still waiting in Montreal. Now, I hope she was
right, and my bag is not kind of lost. After all, it's filled to the
brim with presents for my kids and for Veerle.


Bottom line, I should have refused when Lufthansa changed my return
itenary from the LH flight leaving at 17:10 to the one operated by Air
Canada leaving at 19:40.


*Update*: I have received my luggage on Monday evening, when a friendly
French-speaking guy rang my bell and required me to sign off on the bag
he dropped on my porch.




