-----
Title:  Attic renovation
Author: Andy Georges
Date: December 12, 2007
-----







It has been decided! We are going to rebuild our attic, creating two
large rooms and one shower room. The architect we talked to this
afternoon figured to it would be best, and cheapest to simply create a
completely new roof construction, including the wood, and tiles. This
would allow us to place 15 cm thick insulation and yet keep a
ventilation space between the insulation and the roof. It would also
spare us the cost of having to move several supporting structures that
are now obstructing any decent room-forming effort.


Second on the list was how to get to the attic. The retractable
staircase that is now in place is obviously not an option. However, a
fixed staircase poses its own set of problems. Bottom line: we will
probably need to buy three new staircases, such that heads are not
making any unwanted (as in unwanted by both its owner and the landlord)
acquaintance with either wall or next-floor's staircase.


Ostend city also has to decide if the work to be done can be filed under
a small renovation effort or a normal effort. In the former case, not
much paperwork needs to be completed and things can be kept easy. In the
latter case, we are looking at at least an extra cost of â‚¬1000 for an
energy-auditor who needs to write a k-page report on the planned
insulation and ventilation requirements imposed by the government.
Needless to say, we'd rather use that money to do some fun stuff. If the
report suggests that we are not compliant, we are looking at an
additional fine equal to the amount of money to will cost to put things
in order, or something like that. So the 15 cm of planned insulation had
better be enough.


Our architect had some more horror stories on the current requirements,
amongst which the proposed ventilation to be put into new houses.
Basically, the key idea is to create a draught from the grids above the
windows through ventilation grids in door (alternatively you can sow off
one cm from the door bottom :-) to the obligatory shaft in the bathroom
where the air will be sucked outside. Sounds not very healthy to me.
Apparently, have a too insulated house is quite unhealthy too. So,
theory bumps into practice again, and this time it will probably be with
a bang. Truth be told, his vision of things to come has shaken me up a
bit. I do believe we need to put a stop to energy waste, but the
measures taken seem to be ridiculous and quite ineffective, because the
first thing one does when a wind is blowing outside is close any
ventilation grids. Duh.


Anyhow, we expect to hear from Mr. Ampe (hi Els ;-) somewhere in
January.




