-----
Title:  WTF calculator competition
Author: Andy Georges
Date: June 12, 2007
----







There is a neat competition running at [The Daily
WTF](http://worsethanfailure.com/Articles/OMG-Finalist-Week-Conclusion--Voting.aspx)
(yeah, I dislike their new name) where one can present the worst
possible implementations of a calculator app.


I think they might need one extra entrance. A few years ago, [Ghent
University](http://ugent.be/) decided that it would be to the benefit of
all, especially the employees, if we could use the glorious
[SAP](http://www.sap.com/index.epx) system. At first, they decided a web
application would be most suitable for introducing the system, and to
let employees learn the ropes. Though of course, that would take little
efforst, because the system would ease the entire workflow for everybody
involved.


So, the web application was installed (reportedly on a small PC acting
as the front end to a giant SUN server). And, miraculously it came with
its very own calculator. I've no idea what the real reason might have
been -- it probably had something to do with either (a) making things
more secure, or (b) filling the pockets of the consultants paid to
incorporate the university workflow into the SAP system -- but somehow,
evertything one could click on was an image, generated on the fly. So
was the calculator. I think you can already see where this leads.
Everytime you enter a digit (by clicking) into the calculator it
refreshed the entire webpage to show you an updated image containing the
digit you just entered or the result of the function you just indicated
the calculator should execute. It might not particularly stand out in
the WTF competition, I think.


As if that was not enough, they had a similar system for entering dates
from a calendar.


Right now, we have a real application, that comes with its own
[horrors](http://flickr.com/photos/itkovian/542210084/).




