-----
title:  Spam@work
author: Andy Georges
date: February 8, 2007
description: 
tags: 
-----







For the past months, all Ghent university employees and students have
been spammed on a regular basis, to ask them to cast their vote in
favour of a [Ghent University
building](http://www3.flickr.com/photos/krikke/163501799/) that is
competing in a [TV show](http://www.monumentenstrijd.be/), to get
refurbished. The show will select one monument in Flanders for getting
fixed back to its original state, as the government seems to have too
little money to keep our monuments intact.


I can see that the upper echelons would want to let us know that we can
actually vote, should we not have watched that TV show (which I didn't).
But to keep sending out these emails on a regular basis, to all
employees and students, just seems quite unethical to me. By now, we
know! And asking us to ask our friends and family to vote for this
particular building seems to take it a step further.


And it's not even a cool building. To put it simple: it's butt ugly
(YMMV). During WWII, the Germans had occupied the university library,
and mounted anti-aircraft defenses on its top. Meanwhile, they
apparently had decadent parties on the upper floors. If there was one
building the English should have levelled with the ground, this was
probably it. A pity for the books, but IMO, there are far better looking
libraries, e.g., in
[Seattle](http://www2.flickr.com/photos/doublegrande/150545314/in/set-72057594141222827/).


So please, stop spamming us. I'm not casting any vote, and should I cast
one, I'd certainly not vote for the university library. I like the
[King's Stables in
Ostend](http://www.flickr.com/photos/iloveo/340924209/) far better.




