-----
Title:  Plazes moves from beta to gamma
Author: Andy Georges
Date: June 6, 2007
----







Yesterday, I received an email from [plazes.com](http://plazes.com/)
stating that they finally moved out of beta. I immediately upgraded my
plazer application to the latest and greatest. Much to my disappointment
however, it turns out that both the plazer app and the website are still
somewhat buggy, to say the least. The website does not seem to manage
keeping me logged into my account, so each time I do something, like
invite somebody, I need to log in again. Setting 'remember me' helps, in
that I do no longer need to manually log in, but I still need to do some
stuff on the site twice.


The plazer app itself also acts weirdly, sometimes showing actions from
my contacts, and on a next check some actions have mysteriously
disappeared. Yesterday, when I arrived at my home, it failed to
recognize my own plaze. I'm quite confident I was at the right address -
my key unlocked the door, my powerbook recognized my WiFi, and the
pictures on the wall were those of my kids. Ok, it may have been a
database glitch - after a few hours I was finally found to be at my
plaze. But I do not expect that from software that moves out of beta. I
never had any trouble when plazes was still in its testing phase, I
thought it worked fine. I hope the developers get round to squishing the
remaining bugs, so we can all be happy at our plazes.




