-----
Title:  A clean ride
Author: Andy Georges
Date: May 15, 2007
-----







There has been much ado the last days about a bus built by [Van
Hool](http://www.vanhool.be/). The vehicle uses an engine that uses
hydrogen to generate electricity, emits water, and uses energy captured
when breaking to charge batteries it can later use when accelerating
again.


I must admit that this seems like a very good thing, until one starts to
think a bit further. First the plus points. If all cars use this system,
we would not have all the filthy emissions of exhaust fumes in our
cities. Second, we might save some energy, because of the
break-energy-capture system. But what about the drawbacks? The media
seem to focus only on these benefits. However, the hydrogen needs to be
acquired somewhere, right?


There are several ways to do this. One of them is electrolysis, but that
does not seem to be the most efficient technique around. Even if it is,
you need to generate that electricity somewhere. For example using wind.
The question then remains if it would not be better to directly use that
electricity instead of 'storing' the energy in hydrogen that is to be
used later. Afaik, storing energy in some intermediate carrier always
causes the loss of some portion of said energy.


Another way is by tranforming gas, which is the technique employed right
now to acquire hydrogen for the hybrid bus. Methane can be split into
carbon monoxide and hydrogen, using a bit of water. But the temperatures
required for this are high (700 - 1100 degrees celsius), so a bit of
methane must be burned, yielding, indeed, carbon dioxide. The carbon
monoxide can be further processed at a lower temperature, again reacting
with water, to form carbon dioxide (well, well ... did we not try to
avoid this?) and hydrogen and some left over energy.


So either way, if we think that going hybrid on hydrogen is going to
solve all the issues, we're very wrong, and the media should do a better
job of reporting not only the benefits, but also the drawbacks. That
said, I am in favour of cleaner forms of energy, and I'm quite certain
that reducing smog is a benefit that is not ot be underestimated.




