-----
title:  OOPSLA opening keynote
author: Andy Georges
date: October 21, 2008
tags: 
-----







The opening keynote at OOPSLA was given by [Mark
Lehner](http://www.aeraweb.org/), in which told us about the building
blocks of the ancient Egyptian society from the time the Giza pyramids
were constructed.


As it turned out, the Egyptians had discovered modern concepts such as
modularity, encapsulation, etc. to gather the army of workers they
needed for constructing their massive temples/tombs. It was a very
interesting talk, though I did not learn anything w.r.t. software
design. I did learn a lot of things about the Egyptians, and that makes
attending the talk worthwhile in itself.


Mark explained how they derived the prediction that there should have
been a city lodged at the bottom of the Giza plateau, where the workers
were lodged and fed. On of the first things they discovered was what
seemed to be a bakery - which they replicated into a functional bakery
for National Geographic. Soon they excavated more bakeries next to each
other, showing the fundamental concept of modularity and the notion of
scaling was known to the people living there, so many years ago. Logical
deduction led to the belief there should have been a city, because you
can hardly expect bakers to bake bread for feeding cattle. So they
uncovered the walls of houses - barracks as they turned out - for the
workers. The working class was divided into basic groups of about 20-40
people, sleeping in on barrack with their overseer. There were in turn
assembled into larger social structures, thus forming a hierarchy.
Pretty much the same way software could be built, if one works bottom
up. It was quite fascinating to see how they discovered places to house
administration, food supplies, etc. Sadly, modern city expansion has
caused structures to be built on top of these ancient locations, thus
making it impossible to uncover everything.


There was one question raised, that was how the people were made to
execute some form of obligatory labour. When I asked Mark after the talk
if religion played a role, he admitted as much, but there were many
other things, such as the basic unit of the social network at the time:
the household, which could be a hierarchic structure, pushing work
requirements down the chain.


I doubt actually learning about archaeology is always this fascinating,
but this interested me very much. So, in all, a good start of the three
remaining days of the conference.




