-----
title:  Skiing in Zell am See, Austria
author: Andy Georges
date: February 11, 2008
description: 
tags: 
-----







I love to ski, in fact, I have been on a skiing trip since I was 6 up to
when I turned 19. Since then I only had the occasion to go skiing once.
So the last time I let the adrenaline kick in when rushing downslope for
a km descent into a valley was -- if I remember correctly -- six years
ago, when I went to Les Gets with a group of friends. With two kids, and
a lot of money that needs saving, trips like that are not easy. But,
with a little bit of charming my parents-in-law, who agreed to babysit
Nathan, and Elias being old enough to be enrolled in the school (for
kids over 3 years old), we finally decided to rob our bank account and
go play the dangerous game of not breaking bones. We rented an
appartment in Zell am See, which was quite spacey, with two large
bedrooms and a nice living room. Plenty of storage room for a buggaboo,
suitcases and backpacks.


[![image](A182F9EA-0437-4BF8-BA83-D7EA61D9AFC0-1.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/itkovian/2256922453/)


We were quite succesful in the no-falling department, Veerle fell twice,
I think, I did not fall (well, I almost fell a few times, but these
don't count). We also managed to avoid bumping into other people -- at
times the slopes were quite crowded. After noticing a lot of people, who
were arguably going slower than we were, wearing a helmet, I almost
bought one myself, but finally decided against it, due to monetary
reasons. â‚¬100 for a good helmet and after a single crash you can buy a
new one. I do plan on getting one for next year though, should we go
back.


For most of the time, the sun was shining. We had snow on Wednesday and
Thurday, which was really good. A nice layer of fresh cristals really
feel awesome, and makes it easier to ski on as well. Here's Veerle
riding up the mountain on the Areitbahn II.


[![image](A182F9EA-0437-4BF8-BA83-D7EA61D9AFC0-2.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/itkovian/2257720352/)


And here's a view on the main slopes going down to Zell am See and the
little village higher up in the valley -- Schmitten.


[![image](A182F9EA-0437-4BF8-BA83-D7EA61D9AFC0-3.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/itkovian/2257721812/)


The above picture was taken on the slopes leading down to the Sonnenalm
station, red with a lot of really nifty bumps. To get there from the
summit, you need to ski along a little road providing a really cool view
of the vallet below:


[![image](A182F9EA-0437-4BF8-BA83-D7EA61D9AFC0-4.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/itkovian/2256922255/)


Here's a little video of yours truly going down a slope with a 40 - 50
degree angle. It was a red slope which I did not know before (having
been to Zell am See 4 or 5 times in the past). It was not too difficult,
not at that moment anyway. The video was taken on the last day we were
skiing there, so the risk of falling down was a bit larger than usual.
After the video ends, I nearly fell over, getting my ski stuck in a
patch of snow while turning to look upward.


I really hope we can assemble enough funds to take a new trip next year.
Especially since Elias has been enjoying his ski lessons a lot.




