-----
Title:  Belgian endive
Author: Andy Georges
Date: January 3, 2008
----







Since about 10 years, I love eating Belgian endive. I disliked it until
Veerle's mom sort of made me taste of the result of her cooking skills.
Little did I know it would be an instant hit. I expected to taste more
of the same endive I knew I did not like, but none of that ...


Over the years, I have eaten plenty of it elsewhere. Sometimes it was
good, but mostly it was bad. Of course, *bad* is a very subjective term,
but it simply means I did not particularly like it. Some chefs serve a
quite hard variety, i.e., not cooked sufficiently. Others serve a watery
version and yet others simply fail to grasp how to cook it such that the
inner part gets soft. So without further ado, I present a recipe for
Belgian endive.


First of all, it is paramount to use soil-grown endive. So none of that
water-culture based stuff, as that is either watery when cooked, or
bitter. This immediately limits the time during which you can eat
endive, i.e., the winter months (in the northern hemisphere). The
growing process is quite complex, and I shall refrain from explaining it
here, but it takes a lot of work and a lot of time to grow the final
product. Also the soil is very important. The best endive comes from the
area around Brussels, where the soil is excellent for growing that food.
So, you have bought that pack of endive, and you unwrap the crops. Heat
a large pot (the endive should be completely submerged), and cover the
bottom in a layer of olive oil or butter (the former is more healthy I
think). Make sure the fat is very warm before dropping in the crops. To
clean the crops, remove the outer leaves, cut off about 0.5 cm off the
bottom and the top (so the water can easily get between the leaves).
Very important is to make deep (at least 2-3 cm) cuts in the bottom, in
a checkerboard pattern. This ensures the lower end of the crop will get
soft in time. Bake the crops in the fat, until the leaves start to get
dark-brown. Turn over regularly. Make sure the leaves do not go black.
When the outside has been browned to your satisfaction, ad warm water
until all crops can be fully submerged (they tend to float, so push them
down to check). Add two sugar cubes and let the mix stew for at least
two hours.


Depending on what you wish to do next, you might want to keep the
cooking juice. If you wish to make ham rolls, you should get the endive
out of the water and let it leak for at least 30 minutes. If you wish to
bake the endive, you should let it leak for about 10 minutes.


So that being said, I hope the next time I get endive on my plate in a
restaurant, it will be edible ;-)




