-----
Title:  Strike!
Author: Andy Georges
Date: October 3, 2008
----







It will be clear to everyone who followed the news media the last few
weeks that a major troublesome issue has risen in the financial world.
Next to the fact that the economy seems to be grinding to a halt, idiots
have been gambling with the money people have trust into their care. The
Belgian government - insofar as we can call it one - has invested large
amounts of money - or at least the promise to pay those amounts - into
two large banks: [Fortis](http://www.fortis.be/) and
[Dexia](http://www.dexia.be/).


Traditionally, the fall marks the start of talks between unions,
employers and the government, to decide if the wages should be adapted,
i.e., if people should be given a raise, and under which conditions this
should happen. It is usually a time when tough language is used, threats
are outed and knives are sharpened - if not literally, then certainly as
a manner of speech. Given that the purchasing power supposedly is on the
way down - and looking at the piece of month I have left at the end of
my paycheck, I must agree - the unions want a raise, such that employees
can increase their purchase power. This seems reasonable, up to a
certain point. But this year, the unions have announced preemptive
actions (thank you Mr. Bush, to convey that notion). They do not call it
a strike day, but actions will be held. If you can read between the
lines, it obviously is meant as a national strike day. Even though I
fully agree with the right to go on strike when all other options are
exhausted, I still wonder what the rationale is behind this action.


It is clear that the economy will take another hit. The public
transportation sector will most certainly join the strikers (they are
well known for their solidarity in this aspect). So, a lot of people who
do not have the luxury, or the common sense to have two cars per
household will be barred for going to work, or at least from getting
there on some reasonable time - let alone getting home before midnight
(they are expected to show up the next day though - so much for
rewarding people who are willing to work). But, the education unions
have now also called for their members to join the action. This means,
that people with kids, i.e., me, will not be able to go to work, even if
I would have had a second car (which I don't). So, will I get paid for
the vacation day I will be obliged to take? I could of course sign up
and join a union and get paid by them because I am on strike, but I find
that to be immoral given my position, wage and freedom at work. So, next
Monday, I'll be home with two kids.


Idiots. Or am I the idiot?




