-----
Title:  Spamming for patent journals
Author: Andy Georges
Date: March 31, 2009
-----







I have just received a rather interesting email -- interesting, not for
its contents, but for the idiocy it spells out. I shall refrain from
posting it in full, instead focusing on the small interesting part.


*An exciting journal entitled “Recent Patents on Computer Science
(CSENG)” was launched in January 2008. This journal publishes review
articles written by experts on recent patents in the field of Computer
Science. Please visit the journal‘s website at www dot compscieng dot
org for the Editorial Board, first journal issue, abstracts of recent
issues and other details.*


*Recent Patents on Computer Science (CSENG) is indexed in Genamics
JournalSeek, Compendex.*


*If you would like to submit a review article to the journal on an
important patent area in Computer Science, then please provide us the
title of your proposed article and a tentative date of submission at
editorial@compscieng.org. Moreover in your reply, could you please
suggest some specific keywords, keyword phrases related to your topic,
so that detailed patents may be sent to you for the preparation of your
manuscript.*


*Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any queries. I look
forward to receiving your positive response.*


I went to their website (if you really wish to go there, you'll have to
manually copy and paste the url; I do not link to CS patent promoting
people), and skimmed the *current issue* and found the following.


*Recent Patents on Genetic Programming*


*Michael O’Neill and Anthony Brabazon*


*Genetic Programming is a form of Natural Computing which adopts
principles from neo-Darwinian evolution to automatically solve problems.
It is a model induction method in that both the structure and parameters
of the solution are explored simultaneously. Genetic Programming is a
particularly interesting method as it is claimed to be an invention
machine, producing solutions to problems that are competitive and in
some cases superior to those produced by human experts. Its best
solutions have become patentable inventions in their own right. In this
article, we overview some of the recent patents relating to Genetic
Programming over the past three years. In light of the number and
diversity of patent applications during this period, it is clear that
Genetic Programming is a vibrant field of research, which is having a
significant impact on real-world applications, and is demonstrating
clear commercial potential.*


I kid you not. A vibrant field of research these people are trying to
kill off, by patenting solutions produced by a bloody search algorithm.


Needless to say, my response was very positive:
[http://endsoftpatents.org/](http://endsoftpatents.org/). I hope they
get the bloody clue.




