-----
Title:  Evaluate 2010
Author: Andy Georges
Date: October 19, 2010
----







During SPLASHcon, Matthias Hausswirth, Peter Sweeney, Steve Blackburn
and Amer Diwan organised the Evaluate 2010 workshop to discuss prevalent
issues with evaluation in the papers the computer science community
outputs. Even though the attendees mostly are embedded in the
performance and language communities, the workshop aimed to be fairly
open to all aspects of computer science.


The workshop opened with a very strong keynote talk by Cliff Click.
Being his usual self, he did not fear controversy, he showed us why he
often did not believe the numbers and evaluations that are published in
papers over the last decade. Part of the reason is that the ideas have
been tried in e.g., Hotspot, and were shown to have either less or more
impact. Another part is that the evaluation is just irrelevant, since
the idea has been implemented, but not published. The criticism I have
here is that the community can hardly be expected to avoid ideas of
which they do not know they have been implemented or tried. But that
does not detract from the essence of his remarks. Additionally, often
evaluation numbers are below the interesting threshold. For example, for
consumers of academic work there is often little incentive to implement
the described technique in their own tools or application if the
potential gain is not over 20%. Worse, for some cases the gain has got
to be at least a factor 2. Furthermore, unless an idea has been
implemented in multiple systems, there is no proof or persuasive
indication that it can be ported over to other systems than the one used
in the paper. So, what does this mean for all our rigorous evaluations,
showing that we can squeeze out that extra 5-10% from the system under
scrutiny?


The keynote talk was followed by a fairly long discussion, where the
following points were raised (there were others, I am summarising).
First of all was the question how to gain confidence in the results.
Except for doing each experiment in a statistically rigorous manner, one
should also account for several other things. First of all, there is the
impact of factors that are more or less outside of the control on the
researcher when his technique will be deployed in the wild. Examples
there are the environment, OS, hardware, etc. Key to getting solid
results is randomisation in the first case, and using multiple platforms
in the latter cases. However, that only accounts for the results
obtained from the full technique. To ascertain that there is nothing
going on under the hood that interacts with what the researcher is
trying to implement, it is important that the full technique is broken
down into smaller steps (if possible), that each can stand on their own
and for which you expect either a bonus (e.g., speedup) or a cost (e.g.,
slowdown). The latter might be the case when you have implemented the
extra profiling code, but did not have the JIT take advantage of this
extra information. There are several issues that need to be dealt with
here. Obviously the breakdown, but also the potential for measuring what
has been changed and its impact. More often than not, aggregate
performance numbers will not tell the whole story, nor will they provide
the necessary insight. Such insight is desirable if one wants to argue
why the approach is portable to other systems. Typically, as
researchers, we choose a single vehicle to build a proof-of-concept. But
if we want our ideas to be used, we likely should provide more evidence
as to why it is any good. Having a breakdown can help in that respect,
as it tells others what steps were required and if they meet the
prerequisites for those steps, or if some (or all) of these steps are
already been taken care of on their target platform.


As I mentioned above, there are aspects of any experimental setup that
are out of our control. We can try to account for them, but we often
cannot change them. However, we like to think of computer science as an
engineering science, and thus a constructive science. But that is pretty
much in contradiction with the fact that some things lie outside the
boundary of our control. Hence, claims were made that we are more of an
observational science. The consequence is that we should behave as such
a discipline, and accept that some things are out of our control, yet we
should take them into account. Fil Pizlo mentioned astrophysics on
several occasions, but did not really detail what he meant by that.


Now, if we want to grow up as a scientific discipline, we need to accept
that there are shortcoming in our current way of working that need to be
fixed. The keynote clearly motivated the need for several of these: (i)
the possibility of (relatively) easily replicate existing research
results -- for example, to allow reviewers to confirm conclusions -- as
independent experiments are a cornerstone of modern science, (ii)
reproducibility of techniques and results -- same approach, different
setup style, e.g., another JVM, another OS, VMM, etc. -- since this
confirms that the idea is also generalisable, and (iii) the possibility
of refuting earlier work through negative results. None of these are
going to happen as much as they should without some incentive system
being in place. The reality is, of course, that any PhD student,
professor, or anybody else in academia, except for a select few, have to
keep increasing their publication output, and the above studies simply
do not have a venue where they can be published. Blogs etc. do not count
here, for obvious reasons. Now, the idea is not to have small 1-2 page
papers confirming or refuting, but to have full-blown papers, that have
the same status as any other papers published at the same venue. At this
point the ACM digital library offers subscribers the option of reviewing
existing papers, but that is not completely the same. Moreover, it does
not allow a researcher to add something of significance to his resume.
So, such papers should be able to hold their own and be judged on their
own merit.


Full disclosure is another point that was often brought up. Even when
rigorous statistics are used, the summarising numbers do not tell
everything about the experiment. A first step towards the expected
disclosure is making the full dataset available. This at least allows
other people to redo the analysis even if they do not redo the actual
experiments. A step further is providing the code. This might not be
feasible for industrial contributors, where code might have to be
protected or when researchers have signed NDAs with some industrial
partner. However, this should only impact a minority of the cases, I
think. Thus, disclosure of the code. On top of that, it is preferable
that the scripts, fully detailed setup, etc. are made available. There
is one big caveat. Sometimes setups are too large to be easily
replicated, which may impact the ability to replicate the work by an
independent researcher.


I think there were several remarks that carried quite some weight. The
first, obviously, was made during the keynote, namely that sometimes the
improvements are not large enough to warrant implementation in a
production environment. Complementary to that remark it was suggested
that perhaps our efforts are simply too feeble to warrant even
replication or reproduction. Third, simply reproducing for the sake of
numbers is not the desired attitude. Numbers do not mean anything in
themselves, but through evaluation we should gain understanding, and
this understanding should be deepened by reproduction and replication of
past work. Essentially, reproductions should be a qualitative issue, not
a quantitative. Put differently, negative results also count, but not
all of them! There was some controversy over when a negative result
should be published and when it can be dismissed as uninteresting. I
guess that is up to the reviewers.


In the first afternoon session, we discussed in depth several issues
that we deemed important and that should be fixed in the (preferably
near) future. The subjects were mingling at several occasions, but I
think that’s perfectly normal. After all, we were doing this for the
first time, so we needed to still wrap our heads around all the possible
angles to tackle the problem.


What is the purpose of evaluation? Is it simply to measure a system and
report those results? Essentially, as I touched upon above, the ultimate
goal is to gain insight. Why is something better, why do we see an
improvement over existing approaches? And are these improvements solely
due to our technique, or are there other effects at work?


An interesting idea was raised by Fil Pizlo, namely -- he elaborated on
that over dinner -- that science should start from some falsifiable
hypothesis, since one cannot prove something right with experimentation,
one can only prove it wrong. Hence, everything we know from science is
ultimately false. But let us not take it that far. Still, the hypothesis
idea held. Mike Hind suggested that the evaluation should provide some
first indication that an idea works, once more bringing up the notion of
replication and reproduction. Additionally, since ideas all have
drawbacks, the motion was put forward that papers should be honest up
front: state what are the good and the bad points. I agree, but then
there needs to be some way to avoid PC members solely using the negative
points pointed out in the paper to shoot it down. Finally, we concluded
that any paper should provide insights into why the idea is applicable
in general. Now, some ideas are very niche-centered, but still, they
might apply in some form to things outside the niche.


After some slides presented by Fil and Eric on perturbation and chaos,
respectively, we turned our heads back to reproduction. All of the above
applied. One interesting notion that was raised was the idea of
cross-validation. I am not convinced that this is applicable in all
cases, but whenever it is possible it certainly is a good idea, though
this requires to have either multiple benchmark suites, or use a
leave-one-out approach. Obviously, different domains have different
requirements and possibilities, so we cannot simply judge all
evaluations by the same set of rules, but they should at least obey to
the gist of the best practices we will put forward.


One of the key issues is to create sufficient incentives to get
researchers to do exactly what is commonly done in other sciences, and
we talked about that at length during the second afternoon session. Part
of the debate was wether we feel we should publish in journals versus
conferences. While I feel that’s a worthy debate, I recon it is pretty
orthogonal to what we are trying to get reviewers to be acceptive of.


The next steps are pretty straightforward. We have agreed upon a number
of things, even though I had liked to see us discuss some lower level
things as well, such as benchmarks, metrics and statistics. I felt there
was not really much room for debate along these lines at this point, so
I guess most of my own position statement still is open to debate.


1.  Contact top-level conference PC chairs and provide them with an open
letter where we state our position.
2.  Make people aware of the issues involving evaluation.
3.  Find like-minded researchers that are willing to support this cause.
4.  Write a more in-depth article to give even more visibility.
5.  Have a follow-up workshop in the near future.


I really hope this will help somewhat improve the sorry state of
evaluation in our field, as it is high time we wake up.




