-----
title:  The first Belgian Haskell Hackathon
author: Andy Georges
date: November 7, 2010
tags: 
-----







During the weekend of November 5-7, 2010, <a
href=“[http://http://www.haskell.org/haskellwiki/Ghent
Ghent Functional Programming Group</a
href=“[http://zeus.ugent.be](http://zeus.ugent.be)”
organised a <a
href=“[http://haskell.org](http://haskell.org)”
the first of these events to take place on Belgian soil.


<center
href=“[http://www.flickr.com/photos/itkovian/5150773869/](http://www.flickr.com/photos/itkovian/5150773869/)“
title=“The organisers by Itkovian, on Flickr”
src=“[http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4042/5150773869
width=“500” height=“333” alt=“The organisers” /


Thanks to <a href=“[http://www.ugent.be](http://www.ugent.be)”
University</a
plant, of which we could use the upper floor, where the huge silos for
storing the coals were located.


<center
href=“[http://www.flickr.com/photos/itkovian/5150736193](http://www.flickr.com/photos/itkovian/5150736193)”
src=“[http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4149/5150736193
alt=“The Therminal” /


The event entailed three days. On Friday we had the registration, the
hey-cool-to-see-you-are-here-too and general get-to-know each other,
followed by a very nice talk by Miran Lipovača, the author of the ‘Learn
you a Haskell for great good’ book (soon to be available from your
favorite bookshop(s)). From 5 p.m. onwards, we had the Functional
Programming in Industry symposium, where Duncan Coutts, Romain and
Donald Steward entertained the masses with great stories about using FP
in their daily work. Since we be engineers, and the tradition of our
department states that talks in the Jozef Plateau-room are followed by a
reception (at least, when people defend their PhD. this is the case, but
let’s ignore that little trivia for the moment), we also fed the masses
with a bunch of excellent (220) sandwiches. Sadly, some were left over,
even though the local folks ate more than (twice) their share once it
became clear that there would be leftovers. No worries, we’re well
trained, given the number of PhD’s defended every year.


The weekend itself was pretty much devoted to the actual hacking.
Kenneth (boegel) and I found some support for our <a
href=“[https://github.com/itkovian/HaBench](https://github.com/itkovian/HaBench)”
effort in the person of Yuriy Kashnikov. After a round of project
introductions, the work began in earnest only to be briefly interrupted
by the announcement that food was available, kindly provided by <a
href=“[http://www.hetstokbroodje.be](http://www.hetstokbroodje.be)”
Stokbroodje</a
they delivered on both Saturday and Sunday). The evening saw a march
with a few hackers to Julien, Ghent’s moat famous french fries place
(I’m told).


On Sunday, hacking continued and in the afternoon, a few 5-minute
lightning talks were held by people who considered having made
significant progress. I briefly talked about BelHac (<a
href=“[http://itkovian.net/base/files/belhac.habench.pdf](http://itkovian.net/base/files/belhac.habench.pdf)”
(PDF)</a
a new benchmark suite is highly desirable. Finally, we wrapped up and
cleaned shop before the housekeeper came round to chase us out again.


<a
href=“[http://www.flickr.com/photos/itkovian/5150737575/](http://www.flickr.com/photos/itkovian/5150737575/)“
title=“The Geeks by Itkovian, on Flickr”
src=“[http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1427/5150737575
width=“500” height=“326” alt=“The Geeks” /
