-----
title: Ilyana
author: Andy Georges
date: December 2, 2012
description: Birth of my daughter
tags: ilyana, family, birth, daughter
-----

"I think it has begun." These were the words my wife uttered as I rushed up the
stairs to collect Elias' gymnastics outfit and I passed the bathroom. It was
9:45 on December 2, 2012. Her tone was calm, her voice controlled. Unlike the
previous two occasions.

"Should I call my mom", I responded. "Wait, let's make sure first", came the reply.

Fifteen minutes later, we were pretty sure. We decided to call my mom to watch
over what would soon be two elder brothers. We told them we needed to go to the
hospital since their brother or sister might be born that day. And off we went.

We arrived around 10:30; Veerle managed the walk to the entrance and the ascent
(with an elevator, duh) without major stalls. I recalled that she struggled with
much more pain when Nathan was born. She was hooked up to a monitor, showing small
contractions at regular intervals. And then the waiting game began.

After a while the contractions got heavier, and we were moved to the delivery room.
The one with the relaxation pool and the delivery bath. Warm water was poured out.

She got into the tub just in time. A scream and a few pushes later and we saw
our daughter for the very first time. Up to that point, Veerle had remained
convinced that we'd have another son. I need not tell you how happy she was
that we also have a daughter.

Ilyana would be her name. After 8 years, we had taken some other names into
consideration, but we kept coming back to the name we had chosen for our
firstborn if it would have been a girl.

She is awesome.
